content/new-to-f3/index.md, before:

# New to F3?

Everyone starts off as a "friendly new guy" (FNG) and then gets a slightly silly nickname after completing a workout.

## What to expect on Day 1

* We don’t care what shape you’re in, what size you are, or how old you are. No excuses, just show up and we’ll be there for you, something we call "picking up the six."
* [Pick a workout](/schedule). If you don't have someone already in the group to "post" with, feel free to [contact us](/contact). 
* Arrive 5-10 minutes beforehand and look for the shovelflag. We start exactly on time. This will give you time to meet some guys, stretch, etc. More on **What to bring** later on this page.
* Each workout has a “Q," or leader for the day. This is just one of the pax who is volunteering to lead the workout for that day.
* The typical "bootcamp" workout follows a formula like this. You'll usually run a total of 1-2 miles across 45 minutes.
   1. Shortened version of the [F3 Disclaimer](https://f3nation.com/disclaimer-and-notice/) and pledge at the flag.
   2. Warm Up (5 mins)
   3. Thang 1 (an exercise set 10-20 mins, like running around a field and doing lower-body/squats at each corner)
   4. Thang 2 (another exercise set 10-20 mins, something different than Thang 1 such as upper-body/pushups)
   5. Mary (abs and cooldown for 5 mins)
   6. Name-o-rama (guys go around and say their hospital name, age, and F3 name and name any FNGs)
   7. Circle of Trust (COT) with announcements, prayer requests, and praises.
   8. Ball of Man (BOM) with a closing prayer or encouraging word. 
   9. We often meet for coffee afterwards, at a local shop or sometimes guys bring coffee.
* We have a lot of strange names and terms like FNG or pick up the six (PUT6), including for exercises. If you really want to get into the weeds, you can review the [Exicon](https://f3nation.com/exicon/) and [Lexicon](https://f3nation.com/lexicon/).

## What to bring

* 🧤 **Gloves**: You might want a pair of outdoor/mechanic gloves. We use a variety of surfaces in a typical workout (pavement, turf, dirt, benches, and so on).
* 👕 **Dress for the weather**: We meet even in rain, snow, mud. Typically under 40 degrees, you might wear pants and long sleeves. Otherwise, usually shorts and t-shirts. When in doubt, wear layers. Tanktop Thursday is even a thing.
* 👟 **Shoes**: Gym shoes or running shoes are a good all-around choice. Boots could work, but are probably too heavy for what you need. As you get more into the group, you might develop interests in things like trail running, long-distance running, rucking, or weights. Those might all have special shoes, so just ask someone and we're sure to have a recommendation for you.
* 🔦 **Gear**: For most workouts, you won't need special gear. If it's winter and very dark, you might feel more comfortable with a headlamp or flashlight. Similarly, for run-only workouts in the dark, reflective gear like a vest is always a good idea. For strength AOs, we have things like kettlebells and "coupons" or weights, but you are also welcome to bring your own, such as a weighted vest or ruck.

## About F3

F3 is a network of thousands of free, peer-led workouts for men across the nation. Our mission is to plant, grow and serve small workout groups for men for the invigoration of male community leadership.

The five core principles are:
1. Free of Charge
2. Open to All Men
3. Held Outdoors
4. Peer Led
5. Ends with a Circle of Trust (COT)

{{< vimeo 143444379 >}}

## What else

Everyone's journey is unique, but the following timeline might help set expectations for your first year doing F3.

{{< figure src="/img/timeline.png" title="F3 Timeline" >}}

Commit message:

fix: multiple typos and inaccurate descriptions
- multiple typo fixes and incomplete sentences

- explained what a shovel flag is

- updated leadership page with description provided by @mrhubbell

- added 1stF and 3rdF opportunities

Resolves issue #18

content/new-to-f3/index.md, after:

# New to F3?

Everyone starts off as a "friendly new guy" (FNG) and then gets a slightly silly nickname after completing a workout.

## What to expect on Day 1

- We don’t care what shape you’re in, what size you are, or how old you are. No excuses, just show up and we’ll be there for you, something we call "picking up the six."
- [Pick a workout](/schedule). If you don't have someone already in the group to "post" with, feel free to [contact us](/contact).
- Arrive 5-10 minutes beforehand and look for the shovel flag (Old Glory waving atop a shovel). We start exactly on time. This will give you time to meet some guys, stretch, etc. More on **What to bring** later on this page.
- Each workout has a “Q," or leader for the day. This is just one of the pax who is volunteering to lead the workout for that day.
- The typical "bootcamp" workout follows a formula like this. You'll usually run a total of 1-2 miles across 45 minutes.
  1.  Shortened version of the [F3 Disclaimer](https://f3nation.com/disclaimer-and-notice/) and pledge at the flag.
  2.  Warm Up (5 mins)
  3.  Thang 1 (an exercise set 10-20 mins, like running around a field and doing lower-body/squats at each corner)
  4.  Thang 2 (another exercise set 10-20 mins, something different than Thang 1 such as upper-body/pushups)
  5.  Mary (abs and cooldown for 5 mins)
  6.  Name-o-rama (guys go around and say their hospital name, age, and F3 name and name any FNGs)
  7.  Circle of Trust (COT) with announcements, prayer requests, and praises.
  8.  Ball of Man (BOM) with a closing prayer or encouraging word.
  9.  We often meet for coffee afterwards, at a local shop or sometimes guys bring coffee.
- We have a lot of strange names and terms like FNG or pick up the six (PUT6), including for exercises. If you really want to get into the weeds, you can review the [Exicon](https://f3nation.com/exicon/) and [Lexicon](https://f3nation.com/lexicon/).

## What to bring

- 🧤 **Gloves**: You might want a pair of outdoor/mechanic gloves. We use a variety of surfaces in a typical workout (pavement, turf, dirt, benches, and so on).
- 👕 **Dress for the weather**: We meet even in rain, snow, mud. Typically under 40 degrees, you might wear pants and long sleeves. Otherwise, usually shorts and t-shirts. When in doubt, wear layers. Tanktop Thursday is even a thing.
- 👟 **Shoes**: Gym shoes or running shoes are a good all-around choice. Boots could work, but are probably too heavy for what you need. As you get more into the group, you might develop interests in things like trail running, long-distance running, rucking, or weights. Those might all have special shoes, so just ask someone and we're sure to have a recommendation for you.
- 🔦 **Gear**: For most workouts, you won't need special gear. If it's winter and very dark, you might feel more comfortable with a headlamp or flashlight. Similarly, for run-only workouts in the dark, reflective gear like a vest is always a good idea. For strength AOs, we have things like kettlebells and "coupons" or weights, but you are also welcome to bring your own, such as a weighted vest or ruck.

## About F3

F3 is a network of thousands of free, peer-led workouts for men across the nation. Our mission is to plant, grow and serve small workout groups for men for the invigoration of male community leadership.

The five core principles are:

1. Free of Charge
2. Open to All Men
3. Held Outdoors
4. Peer Led
5. Ends with a Circle of Trust (COT)

{{< vimeo 143444379 >}}

## What else

Everyone's journey is unique, but the following timeline might help set expectations for your first year doing F3.

{{< figure src="/img/timeline.png" title="F3 Timeline" >}}
