content/schedule/index.md, before:

---
title: SCHEDULE
comments: false
socialShare: false
---

### <a name="1stf"></a>1st F Workout Schedule

Map of Peak City workouts in Apex. Scroll down for a table format.

<iframe src="https://map.f3nation.com/?lat=35.732988&amp;lon=-78.857426&amp;zoom=13"
    style="border:0px #ffffff none;"
    name="f3Maps"
    allow="geolocation"
    scrolling="no"
    frameborder="0"
    marginheight="0px"
    marginwidth="0px"
    height="500px"
    width="100%"
    allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

Looking for a closer workout? Check out a surrounding Region:<br/><br/>
{{< button href="https://f3carpex.com/schedule/" >}}Carpex{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3greenlevel.com/schedule/" >}}Green Level{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3southcary.com/schedule/" >}}South Cary{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3southwake.com/schedule/" >}}South Wake{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3raleigh.com/fitness/" >}}Raleigh{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3churham.com/workouts/" >}}Churham{{< /button >}}
<br/><br/>

| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Monday    | [Cornerstone Fellowship Church](https://goo.gl/maps/AJKTycpLQHo)                  | 0530 - 0615     | Hell's Bells               | Kettlebell                                                                        |
| Monday    | [Hunter Street Park](https://goo.gl/maps/bWPqxfs4iEfpjwFf9)                       | 0530 - 0615     | Off the Rails              | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Monday    | [Beaver Creak Commons](https://goo.gl/maps/n9WPcgbaZyqPNW5m7)                     | 0530 - 0615     | Beaver Chase               | High Temp Boot Camp                                                               |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Tuesday   | [Downtown Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/AXfDGXbGRv2XyAbD8)                            | 0515 - 0615     | Ruck this Way              | Ruck                                                                              |
| Tuesday   | [Downtown Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/AXfDGXbGRv2XyAbD8)                            | 0530 - 0615     | Disturbing the Peace       | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Tuesday   | [St. Mary Magdalene Church](https://goo.gl/maps/gDKAiqRS5dF2)                     | 0530 - 0615     | Cougar Town                | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Tuesday   | [Apex Nature Park](https://goo.gl/maps/mZiMKmHYUpX4Gd1VA)                         | 1830 - 1915     | Raiders of the Locked Park | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Wednesday | [Cornerstone Fellowship Church](https://goo.gl/maps/AJKTycpLQHo)                  | 0530 - 0615     | Tortoises                  | Limited Run Boot Camp                                                             |
| Wednesday | [St. Mary Magdalene Church](https://goo.gl/maps/gDKAiqRS5dF2)                     | 0530 - 0615     | Lion's Den                 | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Wednesday | [Seagrove Park](https://goo.gl/maps/nrWfz9gTNBPqR829A)                            | 0530 - 0615     | 7th Inning Stretch         | Run/Yoga                                                                          |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Thursday  | [Lowes Foods at Hwy 55 & Apex Peakway](https://goo.gl/maps/44UHinjZif3FRPSaA)     | 0530 - 0615     | Half Dome                  | Hi Tempo Hills Boot Camp                                                          |
| Thursday  | [Hunter Street Park](https://goo.gl/maps/bWPqxfs4iEfpjwFf9)                       | 0530 - 0615     | Bounty Hunters             | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Thursday  | [Hunter Street Park](https://goo.gl/maps/bWPqxfs4iEfpjwFf9)                       | \*0500 - 0615   | The Happy Dino             | Running – 8.7 Miles                                                               |
| Thursday  | [Publix Parking Lot](https://maps.app.goo.gl/QoeHRiigUZDS2yjg7)                   | 0530 - 0615     | Hot For Teacher            | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Friday    | [Downtown Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/AXfDGXbGRv2XyAbD8)                            | 0530 - 0615     | Dante's Peak               | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Friday    | [Apex Community Park](https://maps.app.goo.gl/F9zeggictfcRsq4b9)                  | 0545 - 0630     | Moon Tower                 | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Friday    | [Cornerstone Fellowship Church](https://goo.gl/maps/AJKTycpLQHo)                  | 0530 - 0615     | Tin2Iron                   | No Run Boot Camp                                                                  |
| Friday    | [Jordan Lake - Bell's Church Fishing Pier](https://goo.gl/maps/YnhGZ7piukyddcus7) | \*\*0545 - 0630 | The Board Meeting          | Paddleboarding (Seasonal, open roughly Memorial Day - Labor Day)                  |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Saturday  | [Downtown Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/AXfDGXbGRv2XyAbD8)                            | 0700            | Das Boot                   | 3 choices weekly:<br/>6-mile run or<br/>60-minute boot camp or<br/>60-minute ruck |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Sunday    | [Starbucks - Hwy 55](https://goo.gl/maps/v82Apf8yVfP1T1Aw9)                       | 0700            | Sunday Slowzy              | Running – ~6 Miles – Varying Routes                                               |

_\*Launch time may vary depending on pace. Intention is to be back at the Flag in time for COT at 0615._

_\*\*Paddleboard start time varies with sunrise. Arrive 15 minutes early or so to inflate your paddleboard. Check Slack for EC options._

### <a name="2ndf"></a>2nd F – Fellowship

| DAY             | LOCATION                                                                | TIME                          | WHAT             | DESCRIPTION                                                                   |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Thursday        | Varies [Check Slack](https://f3peakcity.slack.com/archives/C04F3V31TE0) | 1700 – 1900                   | Thirsty Thursday | Grab a beer or two at local Apex establishments.                              |
| Saturday        | Common Grounds                                                          | 0730 (summer) / 0800 (winter) | Das Kaffee       | Get coffee after the weekly Das Boot run. We normally have a pretty big crew. |
| Sunday          | Hunter Street Park                                                      | 0700                          | Guys and Balls   | Friendly pickup soccer game with your 2.0s. All skill levels.                 |

### <a name="3rdf"></a>3rd F – Small Groups and Community Service

| DAY             | LOCATION                                                                     | TIME        | WHAT         | DESCRIPTION                                                                              | SLACK                                                                    |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Thursday        | [Panera – Beaver Creek](https://goo.gl/maps/cYYpQzRSjtPEFtAx8)               | 0635 – 0710 | Infusion     | Read through books of the Bible and discuss                                              | [#3rdf-the-Infusion](https://f3carpex.slack.com/archives/C02UVAL9XA7)    |
| Thursday        | [Lowes Food Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/XmZXzmJF2THXJTmj9)                     | Any         | WWCM         | Pickup food at Lowes & Deliver to WWCM Warehouse few miles away.                         | [#3rdf-WWCM-Support](https://f3carpex.slack.com/archives/C020LFW2GDV)    |
| Every other Sun | Downtown Cary                                                                | 1400        | TCP Sawgrass | Landscape multiple homes in support of The Carying Place.                                | [#3rdf-carying-place-tcp](https://f3carpex.slack.com/archives/CB22XF46R) |

### <a name="events"></a>Calendar of Events

Special 1st, 2nd, and 3rd F non-recurring events. For more information, check Slack.

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?height=600&wkst=1&ctz=America%2FNew_York&showPrint=0&mode=AGENDA&src=ZjNwZWFrY2l0eUBnbWFpbC5jb20&color=%232b3d16" style="border:solid 1px #777" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Commit message:

add The Foundry to 1st F table

content/schedule/index.md, after:

---
title: SCHEDULE
comments: false
socialShare: false
---

### <a name="1stf"></a>1st F Workout Schedule

Map of Peak City workouts in Apex. Scroll down for a table format.

<iframe src="https://map.f3nation.com/?lat=35.732988&amp;lon=-78.857426&amp;zoom=13"
    style="border:0px #ffffff none;"
    name="f3Maps"
    allow="geolocation"
    scrolling="no"
    frameborder="0"
    marginheight="0px"
    marginwidth="0px"
    height="500px"
    width="100%"
    allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

Looking for a closer workout? Check out a surrounding Region:<br/><br/>
{{< button href="https://f3carpex.com/schedule/" >}}Carpex{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3greenlevel.com/schedule/" >}}Green Level{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3southcary.com/schedule/" >}}South Cary{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3southwake.com/schedule/" >}}South Wake{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3raleigh.com/fitness/" >}}Raleigh{{< /button >}} |
{{< button href="https://f3churham.com/workouts/" >}}Churham{{< /button >}}
<br/><br/>

| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Monday    | [Cornerstone Fellowship Church](https://goo.gl/maps/AJKTycpLQHo)                  | 0530 - 0615     | Hell's Bells               | Kettlebell                                                                        |
| Monday    | [Hunter Street Park](https://goo.gl/maps/bWPqxfs4iEfpjwFf9)                       | 0530 - 0615     | Off the Rails              | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Monday    | [Beaver Creak Commons](https://goo.gl/maps/n9WPcgbaZyqPNW5m7)                     | 0530 - 0615     | Beaver Chase               | High Temp Boot Camp                                                               |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Tuesday   | [Downtown Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/AXfDGXbGRv2XyAbD8)                            | 0515 - 0615     | Ruck this Way              | Ruck                                                                              |
| Tuesday   | [Downtown Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/AXfDGXbGRv2XyAbD8)                            | 0530 - 0615     | Disturbing the Peace       | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Tuesday   | [St. Mary Magdalene Church](https://goo.gl/maps/gDKAiqRS5dF2)                     | 0530 - 0615     | Cougar Town                | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Tuesday   | [Apex Nature Park](https://goo.gl/maps/mZiMKmHYUpX4Gd1VA)                         | 1830 - 1915     | Raiders of the Locked Park | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Wednesday | [Cornerstone Fellowship Church](https://goo.gl/maps/AJKTycpLQHo)                  | 0530 - 0615     | Tortoises                  | Limited Run Boot Camp                                                             |
| Wednesday | [St. Mary Magdalene Church](https://goo.gl/maps/gDKAiqRS5dF2)                     | 0530 - 0615     | Lion's Den                 | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Wednesday | [Seagrove Park](https://goo.gl/maps/nrWfz9gTNBPqR829A)                            | 0530 - 0615     | 7th Inning Stretch         | Run/Yoga                                                                          |
| Wednesday | [Harris Teeter at Sweetwater](https://maps.app.goo.gl/HG3QrYD7voWFif689)          | 0545 - 0630     | The Foundry                | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Thursday  | [Lowes Foods at Hwy 55 & Apex Peakway](https://goo.gl/maps/44UHinjZif3FRPSaA)     | 0530 - 0615     | Half Dome                  | Hi Tempo Hills Boot Camp                                                          |
| Thursday  | [Hunter Street Park](https://goo.gl/maps/bWPqxfs4iEfpjwFf9)                       | 0530 - 0615     | Bounty Hunters             | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Thursday  | [Hunter Street Park](https://goo.gl/maps/bWPqxfs4iEfpjwFf9)                       | `*`0500 - 0615  | The Happy Dino             | Running – 8.7 Miles                                                               |
| Thursday  | [Publix Parking Lot](https://maps.app.goo.gl/QoeHRiigUZDS2yjg7)                   | 0530 - 0615     | Hot For Teacher            | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Friday    | [Downtown Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/AXfDGXbGRv2XyAbD8)                            | 0530 - 0615     | Dante's Peak               | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Friday    | [Apex Community Park](https://maps.app.goo.gl/F9zeggictfcRsq4b9)                  | 0545 - 0630     | Moon Tower                 | Boot Camp                                                                         |
| Friday    | [Cornerstone Fellowship Church](https://goo.gl/maps/AJKTycpLQHo)                  | 0530 - 0615     | Tin2Iron                   | No Run Boot Camp                                                                  |
| Friday    | [Jordan Lake - Bell's Church Fishing Pier](https://goo.gl/maps/YnhGZ7piukyddcus7) | `†`0545 - 0630  | The Board Meeting          | Paddleboarding (**Seasonal only**)                                                |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Saturday  | [Downtown Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/AXfDGXbGRv2XyAbD8)                            | `‡`0700         | Das Boot                   | 3 choices weekly:<br/>6-mile run or<br/>60-minute boot camp or<br/>60-minute ruck |
| DAY       | LOCATION                                                                          | TIME            | WORKOUT                    | STYLE                                                                             |
| Sunday    | [Starbucks - Hwy 55](https://goo.gl/maps/v82Apf8yVfP1T1Aw9)                       | 0700            | Sunday Slowzy              | Running – ~6 Miles – Varying Routes                                               |

Notes:

* `*` Launch time may vary depending on pace. Intention is to be back at the Flag in time for COT at 0615.
* `†` Paddleboard start time varies with sunrise. Arrive 15 minutes early or so to inflate your paddleboard. Check Slack for EC options. Open roughly Memorial Day - Labor Day.
* `‡` Das Boot start time is 0630 in the summer and 0700 in the winter.

### <a name="2ndf"></a>2nd F – Fellowship

| DAY             | LOCATION                                                                | TIME                          | WHAT             | DESCRIPTION                                                                   |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Thursday        | Varies [Check Slack](https://f3peakcity.slack.com/archives/C04F3V31TE0) | 1700 – 1900                   | Thirsty Thursday | Grab a beer or two at local Apex establishments.                              |
| Saturday        | Common Grounds                                                          | 0730 (summer) / 0800 (winter) | Das Kaffee       | Get coffee after the weekly Das Boot run. We normally have a pretty big crew. |
| Sunday          | Hunter Street Park                                                      | 0700                          | Guys and Balls   | Friendly pickup soccer game with your 2.0s. All skill levels.                 |

### <a name="3rdf"></a>3rd F – Small Groups and Community Service

| DAY             | LOCATION                                                                     | TIME        | WHAT         | DESCRIPTION                                                                              | SLACK                                                                    |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Thursday        | [Panera – Beaver Creek](https://goo.gl/maps/cYYpQzRSjtPEFtAx8)               | 0635 – 0710 | Infusion     | Read through books of the Bible and discuss                                              | [#3rdf-the-Infusion](https://f3carpex.slack.com/archives/C02UVAL9XA7)    |
| Thursday        | [Lowes Food Apex](https://goo.gl/maps/XmZXzmJF2THXJTmj9)                     | Any         | WWCM         | Pickup food at Lowes & Deliver to WWCM Warehouse few miles away.                         | [#3rdf-WWCM-Support](https://f3carpex.slack.com/archives/C020LFW2GDV)    |
| Every other Sun | Downtown Cary                                                                | 1400        | TCP Sawgrass | Landscape multiple homes in support of The Carying Place.                                | [#3rdf-carying-place-tcp](https://f3carpex.slack.com/archives/CB22XF46R) |

### <a name="events"></a>Calendar of Events

Special 1st, 2nd, and 3rd F non-recurring events. For more information, check Slack.

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?height=600&wkst=1&ctz=America%2FNew_York&showPrint=0&mode=AGENDA&src=ZjNwZWFrY2l0eUBnbWFpbC5jb20&color=%232b3d16" style="border:solid 1px #777" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
