content/slack/index.md, before:

---
title: SLACK
comments: false
socialShare: false
---

{{< columns >}}
Slack is a group chat app that serves as our group's virtual space for all sorts of mumblechatter. You can access Slack from your phone, desktop, or browser.
{{< column >}}
<br>
{{< button href="https://join.slack.com/t/f3peakcity/shared_invite/zt-1mjr2w8sg-ZA2bQ1ClRx70BHEqsuep1g" >}}Launch Slack{{< /button >}}
{{< endcolumns >}}

> **Need an invite?** Anyone already in the Slack can text you an invite link, or you can give them your email and they can send you a link via email. If needed, [contact us](/contact) for help.

## Paxmate

Paxmate is under development, and will be enabled January 1, 2023.

## Channels

Conversations on Slack are organized into channels that start with `#`. The following sections share details about the most common. Don't see one you want? Ask in `#mumblechatter`. You can even [create your own channel](https://slack.com/help/articles/201402297-Create-a-channel), such as for your Shield Lock or a one-time event!

### Default channels

Everyone automatically is part of the following channels:

| Channel            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| #1stf              | Anything fitness-related, including "preblasts" or promotional info for who's leading each workout the night before.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| #2ndf              | Anything fellowship-related, such as happy hours, spontaneous meetups to watch a game, or recommendations on things to do.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| #3rdf              | Anything faith-related, such as praises, prayers, and other ways we can help each other out.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| #cot-announcements | Announcements that you would like the pax to hear about in Circle of Trust at the end of each workout. These are usually upcoming events like a race or service project. Only admins can post to this channel. If you have an announcement, let someone on the [Leadership](/leadership/) team know. |
| #mumblechatter     | A catch-all channel for general questions, comments, observations of life, etc. Usually the most active channel on the site.                                                                                                                                                                         |

### Other channels of interest

Channels are often used to share interests or coordinate activities around a certain type of event. As Peak City takes off, we are trying to take a "narrow and deep" approach to encourage activity (vs. a "wide and shallow" large number of channels with fewer participants).

> **Tip**: The F3 Carpex Slack (where Peak City started) has been around longer, so has a lot more people and channels. You might try posting there. For an invite, search "slack" on this [F3 Carpex page](https://f3carpex.com/links/).

| Channel                  | Description                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| #buy-sell-trade          | Things you're selling or looking for, or deals that you found that other pax might be interested in, kind of like an F3 Marketplace. |
| #diy-home-ec             | Anything related to DIY projects, house projects, tools of the trade, recommendations for local service providers, and so on.        |
| #business-finance-career | Anything related to money, personal finances, career advice, jobs, professional development, and so on.                              |
| #healthy-eats            | Anything cooking, nutrition, diet-related.                                                                                           |

## Moderation

As with everything in F3, you are "Freed to Lead," and can post mostly whatever you like, or even help the [Commz team](/leadership/) moderate.

A few general guidelines:

- 💪 We love a "hard commit" (`HC`) culture! If you plan to show up to a workout or event, throw an `HC` emoji reaction on that post.
- <a href="/decal-says/">🙈</a> Try to keep content more PG-13 than R or NSFW.
- 🔥 If you post about "hot button" topics like politics, please be considerate in your word choices and remember that we include men from all walks of life.
- 🤑 It's ok to share about your personal business, especially if a Pax asks for recommendations. But please don't spam the channels constantly.
- 🧹 Occassionally the Commz team or another Pax might suggest that a post would be better in a different channel. This is to help us keep Slack tidy, since things get lost very fast.
- 🚨 Avoid using `@channel` or `@here` unless you _really_ need everyone to get a notification that very second.

## Profiles

Here are some tips for filling out your profile.

- Most people have a silly profile picture related to their nickname, but you are also welcome to use a selfie.
- For your **Display Name**, use your F3 name. Some people from other regions might also add their region, like **Prodigal (Carpex)**.
- Make sure to add a phone number to the **ICE**, or in case of emergency, field. You can also put this in your title if you want to add more details like a contact name.
- In your title, feel free to add what you do in real life, or in the group, like if you're a Site Q.

Commit message:

add slack channel naming conventions

content/slack/index.md, after:

---
title: SLACK
comments: false
socialShare: false
---

{{< columns >}}
Slack is a group chat app that serves as our group's virtual space for all sorts of mumblechatter. You can access Slack from your phone, desktop, or browser.
{{< column >}}
<br>
{{< button href="https://join.slack.com/t/f3peakcity/shared_invite/zt-1mjr2w8sg-ZA2bQ1ClRx70BHEqsuep1g" >}}Launch Slack{{< /button >}}
{{< endcolumns >}}

> **Need an invite?** Anyone already in the Slack can text you an invite link, or you can give them your email and they can send you a link via email. If needed, [contact us](/contact) for help.

## Paxmate

Paxmate is under development, and will be enabled January 1, 2023.

## Channels

Conversations on Slack are organized into channels that start with `#`. The following sections share details about the most common.

### Default channels

Everyone automatically is part of the following channels:

| Channel            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| #1stf              | Anything fitness-related, including "preblasts" or promotional info for who's leading each workout the night before.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| #2ndf              | Anything fellowship-related, such as happy hours, spontaneous meetups to watch a game, or recommendations on things to do.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| #3rdf              | Anything faith-related, such as praises, prayers, and other ways we can help each other out.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| #cot-announcements | Announcements that you would like the pax to hear about in Circle of Trust at the end of each workout. These are usually upcoming events like a race or service project. Only admins can post to this channel. If you have an announcement, let someone on the [Leadership](/leadership/) team know. |
| #mumblechatter     | A catch-all channel for general questions, comments, observations of life, etc. Usually the most active channel on the site.                                                                                                                                                                         |

### Other channels of interest

Channels are often used to share interests or coordinate activities around a certain type of event. As Peak City takes off, we are trying to take a "narrow and deep" approach to encourage activity (vs. a "wide and shallow" large number of channels with fewer participants).

> **Tip**: The F3 Carpex Slack (where Peak City started) has been around longer, so has a lot more people and channels. You might try posting there. For an invite, search "slack" on this [F3 Carpex page](https://f3carpex.com/links/).

| Channel                  | Description                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| #buy-sell-trade          | Things you're selling or looking for, or deals that you found that other pax might be interested in, kind of like an F3 Marketplace. |
| #diy-home-ec             | Anything related to DIY projects, house projects, tools of the trade, recommendations for local service providers, and so on.        |
| #business-finance-career | Anything related to money, personal finances, career advice, jobs, professional development, and so on.                              |
| #healthy-eats            | Anything cooking, nutrition, diet-related.                                                                                           |

### Channel naming conventions

Don't see a channel you want? Ask in `#mumblechatter` to see if others are interested, too. You can even [create your own channel](https://slack.com/help/articles/201402297-Create-a-channel), such as for your Shield Lock or a one-time event! Here are some guidelines to help with naming the channel.

* Search for an existing channel that might be similar, and see if it'd make sense to combine channels.
* Use prefixes:
  * `#1stf-`: For fitness-related topics.
  * `#2ndf-`: For social, fellowship-related topics.
  * `#3rdf-`: For service projects, faith-based, and similar topics.
* Use keywords that people are likely to search for. For example, `#business-finance-career` covers a lot of bases.

## Moderation

As with everything in F3, you are "Freed to Lead," and can post mostly whatever you like, or even help the [Commz team](/leadership/) moderate.

A few general guidelines:

- 💪 We love a "hard commit" (`HC`) culture! If you plan to show up to a workout or event, throw an `HC` emoji reaction on that post.
- <a href="/decal-says/">🙈</a> Try to keep content more PG-13 than R or NSFW.
- 🔥 If you post about "hot button" topics like politics, please be considerate in your word choices and remember that we include men from all walks of life.
- 🤑 It's ok to share about your personal business, especially if a Pax asks for recommendations. But please don't spam the channels constantly.
- 🧹 Occassionally the Commz team or another Pax might suggest that a post would be better in a different channel or rename a channel. This is to help us keep Slack tidy, since things get lost very fast.
- 🚨 Avoid using `@channel` or `@here` unless you _really_ need everyone to get a notification that very second.

## Profiles

Here are some tips for filling out your profile.

- Most people have a silly profile picture related to their nickname, but you are also welcome to use a selfie.
- For your **Display Name**, use your F3 name. Some people from other regions might also add their region, like **Prodigal (Carpex)**.
- In your title, feel free to add what you do in real life, or in the group, like if you're a Site Q.
- Make sure to add a phone number to the **ICE**, or in case of emergency, field. You can also put this in your title if you want to add more details like a contact name. (Note: You can fill out the **ICE** field on desktop or browser only, unfortunately not on the mobile app yet due to a known Slack limitation.)
