content/leadership/index.md, before:

---
title: LEADERSHIP
comments: false
socialShare: false
---

F3 is peer-led, and as part of that leadership, these PAX make up the Shared Leadership Team (SLT) in Peak City and focus on the invigoration of male community leadership. Whether that's thinking about new ways to motivate and encourage or helping launch new workouts, this team is here to support PAX as they grow and serve.

## Current SLT

- **Nantan**: Hamm

  - The Q of the Peak City region. He’s the cheerleader. Lays down the 43 feet for the region and exemplifies the Peak City culture.

- **Weasel Shaker**: Clockwork

  - The guy who has his finger on the pulse of everything Peak City. He "shakes the weasels" to make sure everyone is doing what they are supposed to do!

- **1st F Qs**: Zero Drop, Triple Lindy, Earhart

  - Any questions about starting a workout or doing something new in Fitness? These are your guys!

- **2nd F Qs**: Chicken Little, Bumper Sticker

  - These guys execute our large fellowship events a few times a year. Lots of effort, little praise. If you have an ideas about fellowship, reach out to them if you need help.

- **3rd F Qs**: Imp, Go Fasters

  - Lead a team of men planning and assisting guys to get Faith-based activities going like Bible studies, book studies, or service projects. Any questions in this area, get at them!

- **Comz**: Wahoo (Comz Q), Cataracts (Social Media):

  - These are the men to help you promote your next great plan.

- **Region Ambassador**: Henny Penny

  - This role ensures we maintain intentional connections with the greater Carpex region.

- **FNG Q**: Open Concept

  - This role works with the SLT and Site Qs to make Peak City an even better place for friendly new guys (FNGs) to accelerate. He also follows up with FNGs to make sure they're getting plugged into the region across the 3Fs.

- **Culture Q**: Theismann

  - This role helps the Nantan and SLT preserve the unique culture of the region. He works especially with the 2nd F team on special events that invigorate male community leadership. He also works with the Comz team to make sure our digital assets such as the website, social media, and Slack reflect the culture of the local pax.

Commit message:

Update leadership names and content July 2025

content/leadership/index.md, after:

---
title: LEADERSHIP
comments: false
socialShare: false
---

F3 is peer-led, and as part of that leadership, these PAX make up the Shared Leadership Team (SLT) in Peak City and focus on the invigoration of male community leadership. Whether that's thinking about new ways to motivate and encourage or helping launch new workouts, this team is here to support PAX as they grow and serve.

## Shared Leadership Team Commitments:
- Leads with love. Committed to always be accelerating across all 3 F’s, model the F3 culture and avoid factionalism.
- Maintains a regular presence in the gloom and makes an effort to connect with as many PAX as possible to seek opportunities to accelerate Peak City 
- Leader of leaders by identifying PAX ready to tackle leadership opportunities and finding ways to support them
- Attends monthly F3 Shared Leadership Team meetings


## Current SLT

- **Nantan**: Zero Drop

  - The Q of the Peak City region. He’s the cheerleader. Lays down the 43 feet for the region and exemplifies the Peak City culture.

- **Weasel Shaker**: Clockwork

  - Highly tuned in with his finger on the pulse of everything Peak City. Collaborates with all SLT members to keep efforts on track, analyze stats, improve processes, identify resources, and otherwise help Pax carry out their responsibilities. Also works with Comz to highlight the most important Peak City initiatives to the Pax.

- **1st F Qs**: Cheap Trick & Squeeze Bag

  - Leaders of Fitness, ensuring our AO’s are running smoothly, exemplifying a state of increasing fitness themselves and challenging the PAX to push their fitness. They support Site Q’s and the QIC to make sure Peak City fitness culture and standards are followed.

- **2nd F Qs**: Chicken Little & Bumper Sticker

  - The Glue Men, helping to deepen our bonds beyond just working out. They plan our weekly Thirsty Thursday happy hour gatherings, monthly Dads workouts/lunches, annual camping trip and other social events. They bring the extra level of hype and look to make sure all PAX are included.

- **3rd F Qs**: Imp & Poi

  - Our Dynamite Men, making sure Peak City is open to all men of all faiths and that we look for opportunities to show that we believe in something bigger than ourselves. They seek ways for us to give back to the Apex community and beyond, and support other PAX leading charitable initiatives.

- **Comz**: Ramsay

  - Our data and tech maestro, responsible for Slack oversight, website maintenance and data tracking for Peak City. He takes feedback from PAX and seeks opportunities to update and improve our communication channels, while also collaborating with SLT to share data insights to help accelerate our region.

- **Region Ambassador**: Henny Penny

  - Maintains intentional connections with the greater Carpex region, supports multi-region collaboration and promotes special events happening in other regions. He meets with other regions’ ambassadors and brings ideas back to Peak City to accelerate our region.

- **Leadership Q**: Red Ryder

  - Focused on the mission of F3 - developing leadership within Peak City. He leads weekly Q Source discussions, works with all SLT members to identify leadership opportunities amongst the PAX and serves as the region’s leadership mentor.  

- **Culture Q**: Theismann

  - This role looks at all three F’s from the lens of what makes us unique and how we can further embrace the spirit of Peak City in everything we do. He will collaborate with the 1st, 2nd and 3rd F Q’s to share ideas based on maintaining a strong regional identity.
